<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="endnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>This is the first Florence edition, <time datetime="1481">1481</time>, by Niccolo di Lorenzo. Lord Peter’s collection of printed Dantes is worth inspection. It includes, besides the famous Aldine <abbr>8vo.</abbr> of <time datetime="1502">1502</time>, the Naples folio of <time datetime="1477">1477</time>⁠—“<i xml:lang="it">edizione rarissima</i>,” according to Colomb. This copy has no history, and <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parker’s private belief is that its present owner conveyed it away by stealth from somewhere or other. Lord Peter’s own account is that he “picked it up in a little place in the hills,” when making a walking-tour through Italy. <a href="chapter-1.xhtml#noteref-1" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Lord Peter’s wits were woolgathering. The book is in the possession of Earl Spencer. The Brocklebury copy is incomplete, the last five signatures being altogether missing, but is unique in possessing the colophon. <a href="chapter-1.xhtml#noteref-2" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Apollonios Rhodios</i>. Lorenzobodi Alopa. Firenze. <time datetime="1496">1496</time>. (<abbr>4to.</abbr>) The excitement attendant on the solution of the Battersea Mystery did not prevent Lord Peter from securing this rare work before his departure for Corsica. <a href="chapter-5.xhtml#noteref-3" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Lord Peter was not without authority for his opinion: “With respect to the alleged motive, it is of great importance to see whether there was a motive for committing such a crime, or whether there was not, or whether there is an improbability of its having been committed so strong as not to be overpowered by positive evidence. But <em>if there be any motive which can be assigned, I am bound to tell you that the inadequacy of that motive is of little importance</em>. We know, from the experience of criminal courts, that atrocious crimes of this sort have been committed from very slight motives; <em>not merely from malice and revenge</em>, but to gain a small pecuniary advantage, and to drive off for a time pressing difficulties.” <cite>—⁠<abbr class="name">L. C. J.</abbr> Campbell, summing up in <i epub:type="se:name.legal-case"><abbr>Reg.</abbr> <abbr><i>v.</i></abbr> Palmer</i>, Shorthand Report, <abbr>p.</abbr> 308 <abbr class="initialism">C.C.C.</abbr>, May, 1856, <abbr>Sess.</abbr> <abbr>Pa.</abbr> 5.</cite> (Italics mine. <abbr class="name">D. L. S.</abbr>) <a href="chapter-10.xhtml#noteref-4" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
